Uhuh
[music]
Hello everyone at the
Ba Vang Pagoda Summer Retreat! Besides the
fun and recreational extracurricular activities, we also have the opportunity to
interact with
inspiring guests
and figures. Today, nearly 2,000 retreat participants
and volunteers
will have the chance to meet and chat
with a very special person. So,
who is this special guest of the day? I haven't heard
yet. Is that me? Well,
Hữu, we're so excited! Let's give a big
round of applause!
Now, let's give
another round of applause, even bigger, longer, and more
resounding, as
our special guest today
is Ms. Pham Thi Hien, Dharma
name Tam Chieu, Deputy Head of the Organizing Committee of the
2022 Summer Retreat and Head
of the La Hau La Club.
[music]
[Applause]
Uhuh [music
]
when
[music]
[Music]
They haven't greeted you yet, teacher, and the ice cream is so
pretty! We thought there would be a
bigger round of applause!
[Applause]
Our students
[Music]
Now, please pay attention to the stage.
First of all, on
behalf of the organizing committee and the students, I would like to
send greetings and best wishes for good health. That is our
thank you to the teachers for taking the time for
today's exchange.
And during this program, we
also hope to hear
your sharing with all the
incredibly lovely students of the forklift training course.
And I would like to invite you, teacher.
When
you have a friend
like Vang Chi, it's
very strange. Anh Khanh only has rice. Do you want to be
like Vang Chi? If so, you
have to try hard.
Children, from yesterday to today,
are you happy?
Very happy! Now we are trying to
see what's on our screen. Let's
go show the organizing committee what's on the screen. Uh uh uh uh uh
uh
[Applause]  [hand]
Ah, ah, let's
show it to the kids again
[Applause]
Uh, uh, ah,
what happened? Who knows?
You're so
good!
Uh, what happened?
I
'm a dog, it forgot. Sleeping, the dog is sleepy, so
good! What else?
Go get the account again to see
what it is. The dog is sleepy, then what happened?
Ah,
when the dog is dry, it's a
chicken. The
organizers will show it again, okay?
I'll make the chicken use its body to support
thecar.
Uh, okay? You're so good!
Next, let's see how it supports the dog. What's the point of supporting it? I
haven't seen it yet. The teacher is a chicken,
letting the dog lean on its body.
Uh, you see, there are 20 dogs. Sleepy,
then the chicken uses its body
to support the dog so it can sleep,
right? Now, the organizers
will show the image standing where the dog is
dozing off. Look at that chicken looking up at the sky,
how can it continue? That's the
dog, suffering like that, how can it support it?
Now it's...  Looking up at the sky, it's
true! It's really looking up at the sky, isn't
it? I saw the dog, it was
looking at us, but it felt like it was looking
somewhere else. Yes,
but in its heart, it was thinking, "Does
it recognize you?" I
remember it recognizing you for the first time
when it saw the dog sleeping with its head down,
right? Let's go
look again, especially the
chicken. What is it thinking?
Yes, that's right. So, you mean, you
're a chicken, you're standing next to a dog, or
you're playing together,
right? Then suddenly you see the
dog nodding and falling asleep with its head down. So,
you chicken, Ha, at that moment, didn't you feel
sorry for it? Isn't it
cute? But do
you see that dogs and chickens are the
same species?
Dogs and chickens are the same species, aren't they? Why do you
still hear the sound of flowers?
Misa the dog is two different species, do you understand? Two
different species, but
why do they help each other? They
love each other very much, right, my child?
That's right. Even though they are different species, they...
Because they love each other, they help each other,
right?
Okay, so, according to you, if the dog was
helped like that, would you be moved?
Next time, if the dog saw the
chicken in danger, would you save it?
Now, which of you smart kids
can tell me
what lesson you learned from these two different species? Ah, let
me see
what lesson I learned. Ah, let me
tell you, when we help
someone else, whenever we are in difficulty, those
people will help us. That's a good point.
Now, is there
anyone else you can tell me?
What other lesson did you learn? The
lesson learned is that dogs and chickens are loyal to
each other, no matter the circumstances. There you go,
what's your name?
So, the lesson learned is that we
always need to help each other in all
circumstances. You see, there are 20 lessons
already, thank you. Which one of you can tell me? I have another lesson,
when you are all very smart.
I learned a lesson from the poem, my name is Bui Diep Anh. I learned
that we  We must
love our friends; if they owe us, we help them, and
they will help us in return. That's very good,
Loan!
I see you have
other lessons, don't you? Other lessons, okay?
You're all very good. Yes,
hello teacher. My name is Mini Water.
Yes, when there's something, Mom gives it to the hero,
and he says, "If I have something, I'll share it
with him." No, not
you? Thank you, children. You're very good! I'll teach you this: even if the chicken doesn't love the dog much, it's because it has love in its heart, right?
Yes, it's in the chart. It has
love in its heart. Then
you see the dog is
sleepy and easily falls, so you
help it. The important thing is that you
have love in yourself,
right? Now, who can tell
a story about themselves? Tell me once about how you
have love. Let me see if
you have love on your face. I
've seen love at home with my
grandparents and parents.  "We are your friends and teachers. Children,
let's see how much compassion you have.
Many of you raised your hands; you're all
very good at
writing self-introductions!" "
Hello, teacher. My name is Pham Minh Dang.
I want to tell you about a
close friend of mine, and there's a poem about how sometimes
I help and share with him, and sometimes
when I'm in difficulty, he
helps me in return." "Your story is very
good!" "Now, is there anyone here who has
compassion and helps even those who haven't been
good to them? Raise your hand so I can see!" "Oh, so many! So
much
chocolate!" "
My name is Nguyen Viet
Tien!" "
Let's give Tien a round of applause!" "
Now, answer my question!" "
Well, there's a friend, a friend of mine, who has never been
good to me. But once I
helped him.
After helping him, how did I feel? "Did
I feel happy?" "Did I
regret helping him?" "I
felt happy. And a little regretful too."  Why do
you regret that you weren't good to your child?
Okay, listen, that's fine.
Thank you, children. You
see the dog and the chicken. The
chicken needs to know, the dog is good, but
it doesn't. It
just helps when it needs help,
right? Right? No, children.
If you have compassion,
you don't need to know if someone is good
or bad to you; you can
still help them. Isn't that more joyful?
But if you only reciprocate kindness when you see someone being
kind, that's
not true compassion, children. Do you understand? That's not
true compassion. Now
we'll move on to video number 2. The organizers will
show me video number 2. Ah,
ah,
when the
organizers keep showing it to the children, let them watch it again and
again for a little while longer. Ah, ah, ah, ah. Oh, you
children are very good! You see
others doing good deeds and you clap,
that's very good! Let's give you
a round of applause! You
see others doing good deeds and you
clap, that's great!  I'm a good person,
kids, have you watched? So, I'm a
good person. Now, kids,
volunteer to share your thoughts
after watching this video.
When
you brought the teacher, the
kids in the blue shirts were dozing off,
then the ship fell, and then you fell, so you
should have
given them a reason. You leaned on the teacher's shoulder and they were sleeping. Then, thank you,
kids. Who here can analyze it?
Analyze
the events slowly, slowly in
this video, and see the emotions of the two of them.
What does it mean to see who can analyze
well? It means analyzing emotions.
Analyze the emotions of the person next to you who is
sleeping. Just now, I analyzed the
emotions of the dog and the chicken.
Now, let's practice analyzing the emotions
of the two characters we just watched. Whoever can
analyze them well is very good.
There are many hands raised, kids. The organizers
will turn to all the children's faces.
Even though they haven't been called yet because there are too many, the fact that
they raised their hands shows that they are
very intelligent and very fond of doing
good deeds. I
say, ma'am, I...
You
gave the microphone to the child. The child put the microphone on the mother's body and
introduced the
child's name. The person who gave the name is Linh Chi.
Mr. Bui Dang Linh Chi. That's Tet. Let's
analyze it. Let's replay it. Let's
replay it. The organizing committee will project it.
I wish the children to pay attention to the screen to
practice analyzing. The
person next to the viewer, naturally, the person next
to you looks, so whoever comes over, the person next to you
takes their eraser and
puts it on the file. I let you sleep, and the
person next to you feels very happy.
Yes, that's right.
Children, do you find it funny? Thank you. You are
very good. Now let's see who
can analyze it more thoroughly.
More thoroughly? Ah, the
lonely guy's name is Do. No, I'm not.
Uh, uh,
the
people in the picture, the
person in the blue shirt is
sleepy, nodding off, and the person with the book is a tree.
That person sees their friend about to die, so they come over to help them up,
and they lean on the shoulder of the person in the
blue shirt. I feel very lucky for my friend. The
person in the blue shirt, even though Ut is
very sleepy, is also very happy
because their friend helped them.
Thank you.  Thank you, children!
[Applause]
Now, let's give you more opinions. Does
anyone have a child? Raise both hands here.
Raise both hands
before the child's name is, "
I see a
girl in a green shirt, I hit her while she's
sleeping, then I'm
colored blue on the other side." In the color of "Nha," the child in the
blue shirt next to her sees it and falls on her shoulder.
Thank you, children. Now, all of you look
at the screen. Look at the screen to
listen to my analysis.
Which screen do you see? Let's look up so we can see. The
organizers put it here, then there, then there. We
see the child in the
blue shirt, the child in the white shirt, the child in the blue
shirt, has blue and white spots. So, that's the second child.
Is the child always happy? Is the child always
happy playing?
Is the child
always happy with the child in the white shirt? Ah,
when she was little, right? She is very happy with the child in the
white shirt. That's it. She sees something
different next to her because next to
her are two friends. The child on
this side...  The one in the white shirt is on this side, the one in the
blue shirt is on the other, and that's it. Then my friend
noticed something was a little different, so he put it on and turned around.
How did he look? Let's see, let's
see what's
happening to my friend, right?
Which one is this? What's happening?
At this moment, the situation is that
my friend is dozing off, right?
Then the organizer lets us continue, and yes, yes,
there. Then the organizer stops here.
We see, children, you see, the
friends are very happy and busy
talking, right? But
when they see their friend dozing off, they
stop talking, stop having fun on this side,
and turn around to see
what's wrong with their friend and come
back to help. So, even though they're busy playing, they
always
observe their surroundings. If they see someone who needs help, they
help them. Don't you see how clever they are?
They are very clever. They are very kind.
If anyone were to be their friend, would
n't they be happy? Yes, that's right.
Now, do you want to become friends?  To become a
good friend of yours or not,
who wants to be a good friend? Raise your hand. Racing cars, oh oh,
who is very good and more well-behaved than you,
we are often very close. Is there a
mistake? Here,
what lesson do you learn? And this is a story
from class, right?
In class, the teacher arranges us to sit
next to our friends. Do we like it or are we arranged naturally? The
teacher usually arranges us to sit with whoever we like,
or does the teacher arrange us randomly?
Who says it's random? Raise your hand!
Yes, that's right, thank you. So the teacher
arranges us to sit next to each other
randomly, but the person sitting
next to you isn't necessarily a close
friend, right?
Not necessarily a good friend,
right? But if you see a friend who
needs help, a good friend
will help them, right? So
what is a good friend?
Now, let's draw conclusions from video
number 1 and video number 2. Which one of you can tell me?  "Do you know
what a good friend is?
Raise your hand!" "
Son,
just introduce yourself." "
There are two classes this year, one is 6 years old." "
Let's give him a round of applause!" "What kind of
friend is a good friend,
son?" "A friend who helps everyone." "
I can't distinguish." "
Yes, what is it?" "
Okay, thank you." "Do you have any other opinions?" "
Little ones, raise your hands!" "Yes, raise your
hands!" "This is Duong." "That's the person
there, teacher." "
And my name is Trinh Dang Khoa." "
Khoa is in 4th grade this year. You have to eat
a lot and remember that." "At lunchtime, let's
see what a good friend is." "
Son,
who helps me when I meet someone? That
makes me a good friend." "That's
right." "If I'm a good friend,
I must always help
people when they are in difficulty." "What kind of people
are they?" "A
really good person." "A really bad person." "I've only
helped two bad people, I've helped them too." "
Yes, that's right." "That means even if someone hasn't been good to
me, I still help them." "That's how it is."  "
You call them good friends, right?
Thank you, children. Let's give them
a round of applause. Now,
I'll tell you something. In
society, you see many bad people. But how do
bad people become good? How do they
become good? Ah, it's because they
help others.
No, there are many bad people in society,
but how do bad people become good? Who would have thought? You're so
moved, children. Oh, I
forgot! Now, who can answer
instead? That's great!
Thank you, children, for
telling me that good people don't
become good people
because of themselves.
Who would have thought that
only you, a good person, could become a good person? Ah, that's
it. Thank you, children. Do you understand?
Have you explained it clearly? There are
many bad people, right? Some
bad people become good partly
thanks to good people helping them.
Good people are valuable, are
n't they?
So, children, who wants to be a good person in the future?
No one! You're so
good! How about that?
First, we are good people, people who
help everyone without discrimination, just
like a chicken helps everyone,
right? It's not like we
only help chickens, but we also help dogs, so we
don't discriminate between species. Is that clear?
And good people, when helping others, don't
discriminate based on whether that person is good to them
or not. Is that clear? Let's
repeat it. I'll go
first, you kids will say it later. A
good person is someone who
[Applause]
always helps others,
doesn't discriminate based on whether
others are good to them or not. If
we see a good deed,
we just do it,
and we will become good people.
[Applause]
We will be loved and appreciated by everyone.
because we are good people. Will
you become good friends in class later? Try hard to study so you can get
good grades. Is that clear? Yes,
you kids are very good. Now, the
organizers will show you another
video. Which video is it?
Number 3?
Ah, ah ...
Uh, uh,
uh,
when
you see
it, do you see who is as big as
the children in the video? Raise your hand!
There are many, do you see or not see?
Now, I'll wait, I'll analyze it.
These 31 children... The older
brother carries his younger sibling to school,
crossing a stream... isn't
that a good older sister? To be a good older sister, what should we
do?
In Laos, what should we do? Who can
analyze it? Who can analyze it? Wash your
hands... Ah, if I want to be a
good older sister, I
need to have something to be able to do it.
E-zone,
a logo, the name of
a duck, a straight-talking duck.
I can confirm it.
Okay, then, I'll give you a handshake because
you can't speak straight-talking, but it's
not that you don't know. The story is about
a few events. My
mother loves me, my name is Hoang, wandering around,
trying to be a little elephant, a little
cow. Let's
praise you and give a round of applause! So, if you
want to be a good older sister, you
have to strive for what? My dear, you have to
love your younger sibling, you have to know how to
help.  I care about my family, I know how to love my
family. Thank you, children.
When you see that a
good older sister needs to know what to do, right? Is
n't that right?
When you see your older sister, isn't she
diligent? Is she diligent in training herself so that she knows how to do things?
So, among you children, who is
usually diligent in training to
learn and wants to do many things?
Raise your hand so I can see.
Yes, thank you, children. There are some children who have
n't yet trained themselves, right? If you want
to be a good person, you have to help others, and
helping others requires training, doesn't it?
Now let's all work together
to remember, okay?
If you want to be a good person,
you will train yourself.
[Music]
[Applause]
You will be diligent.
Practice doing everything.
Yes, so that you
can help everyone.
[Applause]
You've already watched video one, about helping
friends. This video is about helping whom?
Helping your siblings and helping your parents,
right? If you don't have children, you look after your siblings, is
n't that helping your parents?
Now, children, go out and...  Phong asked, "
After the retreat, what will you help your parents with?" "
Raise your hand!" "Yes, yes!"
[Applause] "Oh,
you children are so good! Who wouldn't want to
help their parents? What kind of help will you
do?" "Let's give the other children
outside a chance to
speak.
They're very far away. We
have to prioritize those
sitting further away." "
Hey, child,
after you get home, what will you help your parents
with?
Specifically, what will you do? Sweep the house?" "Cooking takes a
long time,
so have you ever swept the house before?" "Have
you ever washed
vegetables before?" "Now you have to add
something else, right?" "You have to add
washing dishes, right?" "Delicious!" "
Let's applaud you!" "
Who has hands?" "
Which child hasn't done
anything to help their parents before? Now, if you want to
become a good person, you will train yourself to
help your parents." "Ah, ah,
when playing the game '
A Spider,'
when you spin up here, spin up here!" "
Car, help your
parents look after your younger sibling, help with clothes." "Look after your younger sibling."
How old are you,
child? Thank you so much. Let's give
you a round of applause. After this, when you
go home, you'll help your parents look after your younger siblings.
We're wearing the traditional Vietnamese dress again because you have so
many hands, and I believe that after
this retreat, you will learn
many things, right? To become
good friends, good children, obedient children, good children.
Then we continue watching the video. Which video is it? It's
starting to rain.
Ah, and a child goes to school.
When they get off their bike, they pull up the
trash. Their hands get dirty. Children,
are you afraid of getting your clothes dirty?
No one is afraid of getting their clothes dirty.
Yes. Then the children lower their arms. If you're
afraid of getting your clothes dirty, how
can you do this job?
Right? Right? Let's
watch it again all day. Let's watch it again.
Here, on the road, the water is
n't flowing, child. That's not a rush. I
've created a few streams of water along this road. You've parked your bike, you
observe, you see the drain is...  I slapped him to
show him that it wasn't right, was it?
And you just pulled the armor out of the sewer
to let the water flow.
He broke it and you started going again,
so isn't this a better person than
you kids
? Now, let's watch the next video, let's watch the
next video, okay? Just
now he was good to
his friends, and then he was good at helping his parents,
right? He did housework, and then he went to get a
raise to pick up some vegetables.
Now, what is he doing there?
Picking up trash?
Regarding
how you guys are, if there's trash everywhere like this, would you
throw trash around?
Yes, that's right, you've thrown trash away,
so you would never throw trash around.
When you kids have a month of liking people like this, how
would you do it?
Now, what
else should a good person know how to do, kids? Raise your
hands!
Yes, yes.
[Music]
Car, the name is Ha Linh
Anh, Science in the classroom.
Yes, okay. Let's give Hoai Linh a
round of applause! Ah, ah,
the videos because I see the little one is still helping
a lot.  That
's a funny cartoon! So, what else do good people need to do to be
called good people
? Ah,
brother, how do we all sing together to help
society?
[Applause]
You're all so good! Now let
's move on to the next video. It's
very
good, kids! Ah, ah ...  I'm still
praising my friend, but my husband is at a loss.
What are your opinions, kids? Let's
analyze carefully.
When I say, "Teacher, my name is Nguyen Thi
Minh Tranh, this year I'm in class 4A. I'd like to
answer the question: an
elephant is offering alms to the teachers,
meaning the elephant is very kind-hearted.
Now, thank you, kids. We see the
elephant, the elephant knows how to offer alms, but it
also knows how to do something else. During the
holiday, we're 98, which elephant do you love?"
[Applause]
Here we have the little elephant class. Let's all
try our best to learn. Let's all
learn together, kids, understood?
Who knows how to help their friend? But you must write "respectfully offering alms"
and "respectfully containing the Sangha."
Why "respectfully containing the Sangha"? What does that mean,
kids? Which one will write?
Why not "respectfully containing the Sangha"?
When you all raise your hands, many of you are
here, one in front of you, here, here, here, here. The
child raises their hand very diligently.
Naruto game, my name is Visolie,
this year I'm 8 years old, I'm in the Hoa Mai group.
We compare husband and wife, which hand is there
when the monkey is in the kitchen?  This elephant is
making offerings to the monks, right? I just asked the master
how to make offerings to the monks,
37.
Because, is
this question difficult?
Thank you, I will answer this question. Are the
monks better people than you
and teach you good things? The
monks are good people who teach us
good things, so if we want
many good things and many people to be taught,
we must make offerings to the monks, right?
Yes, so the elephant already knows how to make offerings to the
Three Jewels, making offerings to the monks so that
it can accumulate merit.
Now let's watch another video,
okay? [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Applause] [Applause]
Okay, the organizers will show it again.
When you see this, who is making the offering?
[Applause] [Applause]
Okay, okay,
to make the offering, and then what are they doing?
Okay,
now here's my question, okay?
When you are...  In that house,
grandparents and parents give their
children the most delicious food, right? Is
that true?
If grandparents and parents give the younger or older sibling a
larger share than the younger ones,
what do the children usually do?
If the parents and grandparents
don't share their food with the children anymore, but instead give the
older or younger sibling a
larger share, how would the children handle it? Raise your hand! Ah, ah, ah, ah, my
name is Nguyen Duc Hiep, my friend from
Hoa Mai's house. Let's have the couple break the
tree!
[Applause] Oh, my friend from Hoa Mai's
house! If grandparents and parents
don't give you a larger share,
what would you think? Would you be sad? Yes. Would you be jealous? Yes.
Thank you! You've told the truth about yourself.
Sit down! How many of you
think the same way? Raise your hand so I can see!
Yes, I have too many! Lower your hands,
children, listen carefully to what I'm about to say. Pay attention to
this part!
My name is... If grandparents and parents
don't give you a larger or better share...
If we're angry and jealous at that moment,
are we still good people?
That means we're no longer good people, right? So, a
good person should know
how to give. Right, releasing 22 babies
and an elephant, knowing how to make offerings and give, right? A
good person must know how to give, how to be
considerate, and when they don't get anything,
they shouldn't be sad or angry, right? That's right, children,
right? Listen to me, let me
repeat: a
good person
just
needs to know how to give,
needs to know how to help,
doesn't need to be jealous,
doesn't need to demand anything from parents or grandparents.
You're all so good! I know, I'll repeat it, I'll repeat it again. A good friend, children, raise your hands! Who wants to be a good person? I am everyone! Everyone wants to be a good person,
you're all very good children!
Now, lower your hands! To be a good person, you need
this: a cat, a chicken,
a friend, a friend who helps you when you're
dozing off. A good person must know how to
help friends without discrimination. More like
this: one, write "helping friends
without discrimination,"
or "
knowing how to carry a baby," or "knowing how to improve yourself," or "
training yourself."  What does it mean to train
yourself to be diligent? It means you train
yourself to be diligent, to do everything to
help your grandparents and parents, right?
[Applause]
OOO and 3, what does that mean? It
will help society. The
third thing is to help society. 4 is to write,
to give, not to
demand. Do you understand?
Now, if you go home and your
parents don't give in to your wishes, what
will you do? Raise your hand, let me see
who knows how to handle it.
If you go home and your parents
don't give
you what you want, what will you do? Ah,
when you obey your
parents, when you don't give, you obey. That means when your parents don't give, you obey. That's great!
Let's
clap and praise you!
You're all very good! So,
today's lesson is about this, and the
volunteers in the class will
remind you of this in each activity session. The
volunteers will ask you
what you would do at home in
4 situations.  Okay, kids, are you ready to
answer?
Yes, you're all very good, very good! Today
I'm very happy because you all
volunteered to be good people. So
now, the organizing committee will show the
videos from beginning to end one by one. Let's
review them to learn from them.
These videos will be sent to you, and you'll do exercises,
okay? The members of the
La La Club will use these four videos
for exercises. These six videos will be used for exercises
based on four topics, meaning we'll have
monthly assignments to submit to the
La La Club. Okay, kids? For
these four things, the La La Club will let you count
how many you've done in a month.
But kids here, who has already
memorized the questions? Who has memorized the club?
Raise your hand so I can see!
I think about two-
thirds of you have memorized the club. Then
you'll do the exercises. And for those of you who have
n't memorized the La La Club yet, you can
still do the exercises.  The above post is from which club page?
Later, I'll talk to the
parents so they can
help their children. Let's
review all the videos. Let's
clap our hands to praise the
good friends in the video.
First, there's the chicken! Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, no matter
how difficult it is, it helps its
friends, you see? The
dog's neck is very big! Uh-huh, uh ...  Let's
help you kids too! Are
n't you smart? You see how smart
you are? You're as fat as some of the other kids, right? I'm even smaller than some of the kids
here. We try our best, and we can do it. We don't need our
mothers, do we? Do you
want to have
this kind of strength? We
prefer self-reliance, not having our
mothers serve us. Right, kids? If our
parents have to help us,
we're so bored.
That's fun, isn't it? I'm happy that I can do it,
and it's even better than that face of yours. Dad, I'm so
bored! Oh,
which one of you cries a lot because of Dad?
Who cries like that? Raise your hand!
Yes, from today onwards, be self-reliant, study, right?
Go ahead, Quốc, twist up your sleeves and bury your face in your
shoulders. You're still carrying your little sister on your shoulders. Even though she's this small, you
still do it, kids. Aren't you smart?
Because you're just as good as your friends,
but your friends are trying, and you
're not trying, understand?
We have to study a lot.
Feed your sister, I'll
tell you. Be good, kids.
This is what you call being
good. This is what you call being a good person, do you
understand?  Oh,
there, doing public work from tomorrow, we
'll switch to doing it next time.
You kids should do public work that's within your capabilities. You do it, okay?
[Music]
Here, you don't need anyone to tell you what to do. If you see something to do, just
do it. That's what makes a good person, right?
You kids...
You go up to the next section of the sewer
above and continue working. You
see, over there,
the sewer above is collapsing, so you have to
clean it even more thoroughly than the sewer above. Do you see? You do
this section of the sewer and then go
up to the sewer above to continue.
You see, isn't being a good person happy?
Good people are happy on their own, little
dog. There
's also a woman and a man running from the
rain. Everyone else is running from the rain, but good people are
n't afraid of the rain, right kids?
Everyone else is
running from the rain, but good people are still able to
clean up the sewers, right kids? And
there's a child... Mom, remember to learn from good people.  That's how you have to
learn, my children. And
here, a good person is like a man
standing next to you doing exercises while you
continue working, right? A good person is
n't afraid of being ridiculed for doing
good deeds, right, my children? Right, my
children? Aren't you afraid of anyone criticizing you for doing good deeds?
Remember, you're not afraid of anyone criticizing you for being a
good person doing good deeds. You only fear being
criticized for being a bad person. Do you understand, my children?
Then you see,
after the offering, he knows a lot. He steps back one foot, and
then he shines like, "Look, my children, the
offering." But that politeness is
in your heart. Knowing how to give, knowing how to give.
But he steps back so you can
see him stepping back. Do you see how
polite he is?
Very polite, very respectful.
Here again, do you see? He goes
down to the kitchen with those two men. Do you see anyone?
Or do
you see them? You have to learn, my children.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
yes.
Yes,
[music]
That fell, and he wrote his own name on it. My
children, he wrote his own name on it to
continue the offering. Do you see how
respectful and polite he is?  My friend,
when we bathe the elephant, which elephant
is
here? It's very respectful. Kneel down and crawl
to offer it respectfully. And you
see? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
Remember this, my
child, if you have something, give it away and offer it,
don't demand it or be jealous. Understood?
In the
Lao La club, whenever you
receive something, whenever you have something, remember to be kind to it. Understood?
Which one is clear?
I'll write this down and keep it to send to your grandparents and parents as an offering. Remember? Yes, yes.
[Music] Yes, yes.
When
we know how to give like that,
we will have joy. And whenever someone
takes something from us, we won't be sad.
Understood? That way, you
can take care of others, take care of your
parents, who are weak.
Understood? That's how we
will become good people.
You're very good! Today,
I'll teach you a lot. Today, I'll share with you...
I also hope that in the future I will
become a good person. Good people receive all
good things, right?
Good people are loved and
respected by others, right?
When others trust them, right?
At that moment, I
saw that you all hoped to
become good people, helping your friends, helping your
grandparents, helping your parents, and extending that to
everyone, to all living beings.
Do you understand?
Thank you
very much for your enthusiastic participation in the
lesson. We invite you, Mr. Dan Tri, to
welcome Mr. Quan Tri. And you, my dear
students, have time, but you haven't told me yet.
From here, because there, no, right? So,
let's give him a big round of applause. Let's go again, a
big round! We respectfully present to you, teacher, after this very meaningful and practical sharing session on the topic, we are sure that you have gained many valuable lessons. We thank you very much, teacher. And now, we will present you with fresh flowers as a token of our
gratitude. We will invite the
students to finish and...  Representatives of the volunteer brothers and sisters
came up to the stage to give the teacher a
beautiful flower [music] Oh
my god, we are
now too much, the uncles'
song La La club, right? Ah, yes, yes,
going to
work far away, son likes to sing, leaving family,
how old are we, I
love my mother very much, I am like flowers everywhere,
we 304, we finished grade 5, living,
loving, helping relatives, parents, helping
friends, we want Loan,
when I am ours,
our students, as well as on the mountain, also remember,
in is the
dog here, we have lived through the
past days,
we have the
most in this, when we were
little
[music]
Now you are still born, listen and talk with your
brother, we thank you, my dear
[music]
We love you,
our dear
[music] My love, my dear, my
love.
Yes,
goodbye children. Wishing you all a happy
end to the retreat and go home. From now on, we will
try to be the best people, my
dear children. Goodbye children,
once again, we would like to ask, have you
taken the time from sharing with
the students today?  Today, with the theme of
adorable children, we respectfully
greet you, teacher. My lovely friends,
let's all say
goodbye and wave goodbye!
[Music]
Ladies and gentlemen, the
programs of the temple will be
updated on the temple's media pages.
We invite you to
continue watching. Yes, yes,
number 7. With special,
interesting, and beneficial experiences, peaceful and
group activities, free creativity and
maximizing personal abilities
with 2,000 young people from all over the
country. A
dynamic and attractive outdoor activity, opportunities to gain
life skills and
motivation from sharing with
special guests, becoming more
independent and personal in a
monastic setting without strict discipline. Finding
inner peace, knowing how to balance
life through Buddhist methods, awakening filial piety
in each
person, understanding karma on Buddha's day...
Ways of behaving for life, learning to
live virtuously and with noble ideals, the
essence of life. Two essential qualities for
success in life. An
opportunity to experience special things
only available at the Ba Vang Pagoda Summer Retreat
2012. Youth are nurtured with sincerity
to become useful citizens.
The program is streamed online on
traditional platforms of the Church and
such as the Ba Vang Pagoda website, the website of Ba Vang Pagoda,
YouTube, Ba Vang Pagoda, and Facebook.
Ba Vang Pagoda Facebook, the
Youth Club Facebook. Come to the
2012 Summer Retreat and write
brilliant chapters of youth.